[DOCS] Document Model Optimizer Python API (#14380)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/MO_DG/prepare_model/convert_model/Convert_Model_From_PyTorch.md

# Converting a PyTorch Model {#openvino_docs_MO_DG_prepare_model_convert_model_Convert_Model_From_PyTorch}

The PyTorch framework is supported through export to the ONNX format. Model Optimizer Python API allows to convert PyTorch models through usage of convert_model() method which internally converts a model to ONNX.

> ## Exporting a PyTorch Model using MO Python API (Experimental Functionality)

Reviewer: May be "Conversion of PyTorch model from the memory using Python API" ?

Author: Done.

Converting a PyTorch model using convert_model() requires providing of 'input_shape' or 'example_input'.
```sh
import torchvision
import torch
from openvino.tools.mo import convert_model

model = torchvision.models.resnet50(pretrained=True)
ov_model = convert_model(model, example_input=torch.zeros(1, 3, 100, 100))
```

'example_input' accepts following formats:

* openvino.runtime.Tensor
* torch.Tensor
* np.ndarray
* list or tuple with tensors (openvino.runtime.Tensor / torch.Tensor / np.ndarray)
* dictionary where key is input name, value is tensor (openvino.runtime.Tensor / torch.Tensor / np.ndarray)

> ONNX opset version can be set using 'onnx_opset_version' parameter.

Reviewer 2: is it optional? If yes, please provide info which value is default

Author: Yes, it is optional. Added "optional" note and default behavior description.

# Converting a PyTorch Model {#openvino_docs_MO_DG_prepare_model_convert_model_Convert_Model_From_PyTorch}

The PyTorch framework is supported through export to the ONNX format. Model Optimizer Python API allows to convert PyTorch models through usage of convert_model() method which internally converts a model to ONNX.

> ## Conversion of PyTorch model from the memory using Python API (Experimental Functionality)

Reviewer: I think the blank line is missed here.

Author: Done.

Converting a PyTorch model using convert_model() requires providing of 'input_shape' or 'example_input'.
```sh
import torchvision
import torch
from openvino.tools.mo import convert_model

model = torchvision.models.resnet50(pretrained=True)
ov_model = convert_model(model, example_input=torch.zeros(1, 3, 100, 100))
```

'example_input' accepts following formats:

* openvino.runtime.Tensor
* torch.Tensor
* np.ndarray
* list or tuple with tensors (openvino.runtime.Tensor / torch.Tensor / np.ndarray)
* dictionary where key is input name, value is tensor (openvino.runtime.Tensor / torch.Tensor / np.ndarray)

ONNX opset version can be set using optional 'onnx_opset_version' parameter.
If onnx_opset_version is not set default opset from torch.onnx.export() is used.

```sh
import torchvision

model = torchvision.models.resnet50(pretrained=True)
ov_model = convert_model(model, input_shape=[1,3,100,100], onnx_opset_version=13)
```

## Exporting a PyTorch Model to ONNX Format <a name="export-to-onnx"></a>

> For complicated cases PyTorch models can be first exported to ONNX prior to MO conversion:

Reviewer: blank line is missed

Author: Done.

# Converting a PyTorch Model {#openvino_docs_MO_DG_prepare_model_convert_model_Convert_Model_From_PyTorch}

The PyTorch framework is supported through export to the ONNX format. Model Optimizer Python API allows the conversion of PyTorch models using the `convert_model()` method, which internally converts a model to ONNX.

> ## Converting a PyTorch model from memory with Python API (Experimental Functionality)

Reviewer 3: Can we switch to PT FE path by default (as `use_new_frontend=True`) and keep old path via ONNX as a backup solution (as `use_new_frontend=False`)? This is more aligned with what we are aiming for in the long perspective. We can experiment with automatic fallback in case if PT FE pass failed with an appropriate message in the console (I think it is acceptable for feature that we are describing as experimental).

Author: There is a separate task for enabling PT FE in convert_model() https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/pull/15197
I suppose we can switch to PT FE by default when it is done. 

Should I write here that default path is PT FE?

> To convert a PyTorch model using `convert_model()`, provide the `input_shape` or `example_input`.

Reviewer 3: Add more words about when we should use `input_shape` or `example_input`. Describe how input_shape is really used, especially in case of dynamic dimensions.

Author: Added details. Please check.

> Converting a PyTorch model using `convert_model()` requires providing of `input_shape` or `example_input`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
To convert a PyTorch model using `convert_model()`, provide the `input_shape` or `example_input`.
```

```sh
import torchvision
import torch
from openvino.tools.mo import convert_model

model = torchvision.models.resnet50(pretrained=True)
ov_model = convert_model(model, example_input=torch.zeros(1, 3, 100, 100))
```

> 'example_input' accepts following formats:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
'example_input' accepts the following formats:
```

* `openvino.runtime.Tensor`
* `torch.Tensor`
* `np.ndarray`
* `list` or `tuple` with tensors (`openvino.runtime.Tensor` / `torch.Tensor` / `np.ndarray`)

> * `dictionary` where key is input name, value is tensor (`openvino.runtime.Tensor` / `torch.Tensor` / `np.ndarray`)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* `dictionary` where key is the input name, value is the tensor (`openvino.runtime.Tensor` / `torch.Tensor` / `np.ndarray`)
```

> ONNX opset version can be set using optional `onnx_opset_version` parameter.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
ONNX opset version can be set using an optional `onnx_opset_version` parameter.
```

> ONNX opset version can be set using an optional `onnx_opset_version` parameter.

Reviewer 3: Please note that this works in case of `use_new_frontend=False` if we choose using PT FE by default. Or PT FE by default approach is problematic, then note that this option always implies ONNX path and it may not be backward compatible in case when we switch to a different default approach.

Author: Currently `use_new_frontend` does not switch PyTorch conversion path yet.
When https://github.com/openvinotoolkit/openvino/pull/15197 is implemented this part of documentation will need updating.

> If `onnx_opset_version` is not set default opset from `torch.onnx.export()` is used.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
If the `onnx_opset_version` is not set, the default opset from `torch.onnx.export()` is used.
```

```sh
import torchvision

model = torchvision.models.resnet50(pretrained=True)
ov_model = convert_model(model, input_shape=[1,3,100,100], onnx_opset_version=13)
```

## Exporting a PyTorch Model to ONNX Format <a name="export-to-onnx"></a>

> For complicated cases PyTorch models can be first exported to ONNX prior to MO conversion:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For complicated cases, PyTorch models can be first exported to ONNX before MO conversion:
```

> For complicated cases, PyTorch models can be first exported to ONNX before MO conversion:

Reviewer 3: What do you mean by `complicated cases`? Please be more specific, for example when `convert_model` fails to convert your model you can convert to ONNX first with specific torch.onnx.export parameters which are not available in convert_model, explore the model and apply model cutting techniques (with input/output parameters) if there operations that are not supported by OpenVINO.

Author: Replaced this line with your suggestion.

Example of PyTorch model converting:
```sh
import torchvision
import torch
from openvino.tools.mo import convert_model

model = torchvision.models.resnet50(pretrained=True)
ov_model = convert_model(model)
```

Following PyTorch model formats are supported:
* `torch.nn.Module`
* `torch.jit.ScriptModule`
* `torch.jit.ScriptFunction`

Converting of some PyTorch models may require model tracing which need setting of `input_shape` or `example_input` parameters.

`example_input` is used as example input for model tracing.
`input_shape` is used for constructing a float zero-filled torch.Tensor for model tracing.

Example:
```sh
import torchvision
import torch
from openvino.tools.mo import convert_model

model = torchvision.models.resnet50(pretrained=True)
ov_model = convert_model(model, example_input=torch.zeros(1, 3, 100, 100))
```

`example_input` accepts the following formats:

* `openvino.runtime.Tensor`
* `torch.Tensor`
* `np.ndarray`
* `list` or `tuple` with tensors (`openvino.runtime.Tensor` / `torch.Tensor` / `np.ndarray`)
* `dictionary` where key is the input name, value is the tensor (`openvino.runtime.Tensor` / `torch.Tensor` / `np.ndarray`)

> If PyTorch model is scripted it can be converted using `convert_model()` with `input_signature` parameter for keeping dynamic dimensions of the original model.

Reviewer 2: it is not correct, input_signature has no influence on dynamic signature (it is just additional names for input tensors aligned with argument names in model forward method)

Author: Corrected input_signature  description. Please take a look.

Example:

.. code-block:: python

   import torchvision
   import torch
   from openvino.tools.mo import convert_model
   
   model = torchvision.models.resnet50(pretrained=True)
   ov_model = convert_model(model, example_input=torch.zeros(1, 3, 100, 100))

``example_input`` accepts the following formats:

* ``openvino.runtime.Tensor``
* ``torch.Tensor``
* ``np.ndarray``
* ``list`` or ``tuple`` with tensors (``openvino.runtime.Tensor`` / ``torch.Tensor`` / ``np.ndarray``)
* ``dictionary`` where key is the input name, value is the tensor (``openvino.runtime.Tensor`` / ``torch.Tensor`` / ``np.ndarray``)

If ``use_legacy_frontend`` is set, it enables PyTorch model converting using temporary ONNX model.
ONNX opset version can be set using an optional ``onnx_opset_version`` parameter.
If the ``onnx_opset_version`` is not set, the default opset from ``torch.onnx.export()`` is used.

.. code-block:: python

   import torchvision
   
   model = torchvision.models.resnet50(pretrained=True)
   ov_model = convert_model(model, input_shape=[1,3,100,100], onnx_opset_version=13)

Exporting a PyTorch Model to ONNX Format
########################################

> Currently, the most robust method of converting PyTorch models is exporting PyTorch model to ONNX and then converting it to IR. In order to convert and deploy a PyTorch model you need to do the following steps:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Currently, the most robust method of converting PyTorch models is exporting a PyTorch model to ONNX and then converting it to IR. To convert and deploy a PyTorch model, follow these steps:
```

@sphinxdirective

This page provides instructions on how to convert a model from the PyTorch format to the OpenVINO IR format using Model Optimizer.
Model Optimizer Python API allows the conversion of PyTorch models using the ``convert_model()`` method.

(Experimental) Converting a PyTorch model with PyTorch Frontend 
###############################################################

Example of PyTorch model conversion:

.. code-block:: python

   import torchvision
   import torch
   from openvino.tools.mo import convert_model
   
   model = torchvision.models.resnet50(pretrained=True)
   ov_model = convert_model(model)

Following PyTorch model formats are supported:

* ``torch.nn.Module``
* ``torch.jit.ScriptModule``
* ``torch.jit.ScriptFunction``

Converting certain PyTorch models may require model tracing, which needs ``input_shape`` or ``example_input`` parameters to be set.

``example_input`` is used as example input for model tracing.
``input_shape`` is used for constructing a float zero-filled torch.Tensor for model tracing.

> Example of usage of ``example_input``:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Example of using ``example_input``:
```
